Unlocked deps (#393)
WebAssembly/component-model: design/mvp/WIT.md

> configure that a `use`'d interface is a particular import or a particular
> export.

## Unlocked Imports (semver)

> When working with a registry, the keyword `unlocked-dep` is available to specify version requirements as ranges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When working with a registry, the keyword `unlocked-dep` is available to specify and package name and version requirements.  For example:
```

```wit
world w {
  unlocked-dep foo:bar@{>=x.x.x <y.y.y};
}
```

The binary format has a corresponding [import definition](Explainer.md#import-and-export-definitions) and this WIT syntax informs
bindgen tooling that it should be used.

The key idea here is to be able to specify a dependency on a _component_, rather than on a wit interface.  Sometimes, as a component author, the goal is to have a dynamic import, where at a time after development is done, one of many implementations of a wit interface is specified, so that in essence your dependency makes your component configurable.  This workflow is well documented across a variety of tools.  Unlocked imports, on the other hand, are available for
specifying a dependency on a specific implementation of an interface, with a semver range

### Example Unlocked Workflow
Each language has its own toolchain for creating wasm components that should feel familiar to users of that language.  As an example, somebody authoring a rust component would add the component they're interested in to their `Cargo.toml`.

```
"foo:bar" = "x.x.x"
```

> Say that the exports of this component match the exports of some `world exports`.  Then the wit used for the component being authored would end up as follows:
> 
> ```wit
> package my:component
> 
> package foo:bar {
>   interface exports {
>     nest some:other/interfacename
>     ...
>   }
> }
> 
> world w {
>   unlocked-dep foo:bar/exports@{>=x.x.x <y.y.y}
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Now say that `foo:bar@1.2.0` implements the following `exports` interface:
```wit
package foo:bar@1.2.0;
interface exports {
  calc: func(x: u64) -> u64;
}
```
````
I'm thinking it's useful to not also introduce `nested` here, when trying to show the most basic example.

> 
> Once this wit is synthesized by the language toolchain based on the language's package file, bindings can be generated and a wasm binary can be compiled which will contain unlocked imports as defined in the [import definition section](Explainer.md#import-and-export-definitions) of the explainer.  Below is an example of the unlocked imports that will be present in the `wat`
> 
> ```wat
> (import "unlocked-dep=<foo:bar/exports@{>=1.0.0}>")
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
The next step is to expand `generated-world` with nested packages fetched from all the relevant registries, producing an all-in-one WIT file with no external references:  
```wit
package my:component;

package wasi:http@0.2.0 {
  ...
  world proxy { ... }
}

package foo:bar@1.2.0 {
  interface exports {
    calc: func(x: u64) -> u64;
  }
}

world generated-world {
  include wasi:http/proxy@0.2.0;
  unlocked-dep foo:bar/exports@{>=1.2.0};
}
```
Note that `exports` is an arbitrary name and can be anything because the WIT bindings generation will always strip off the final interface name, leaving only the package name.  In particular, the Component Model type for this world is:
```wat
(component
  (import "wasi:http/types@0.2.0" (instance ...))
  (import "wasi:http/outgoing-handler@0.2.0" (instance ...))
  (import "unlocked-dep=<foo:bar@{>=1.2.0}>" (instance
    (export "calc" (func (param "x" u64) (result u64)))
  ))
  (export "wasi:http/incoming-handler@0.2.0" (instance ...))
)
```
````
Note that `exports` is stripped by the time we get into the component.

> A wasm component binary that has unlocked imports is referred to as an unlocked component. In general, unlocked components are what would be published to a registry.   Registry aware tools have a command `lock` that will produce a  "locked" component when it resolves dependency versions.  As an example, today the warg cli has a [lock command](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/registry/blob/main/src/commands/lock.rs). This "locked"  component will use locked import statements, rather than unlocked import statements, with pinned version numbers and integrity hashes discovered during package resolution, as can be seen below.
> 
> ```wat
> (import "locked-dep=<foo:bar/example@1.0.0>,integrity=<sha256-7b582e13fd1f798ed86206850112fe01f837fcbf3210ce29eba8eb087e202f62>")
> ```
> 
> Locked components aren't runnable unless they are being run by a registry aware runtime.  They serve the role of a reproducible deployment artifact.  In order to run them with a runtime that is not registry aware, one would need to use a `bundle` command, also made available by registry aware toolchains, that will inline component definitions where locked imports exist in a locked component.  The warg cli also has a reference implementation of a [bundle command](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/registry/blob/main/src/commands/bundle.rs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A wasm component that contains `unlocked-dep` imports is referred to as an "unlocked component".  Unlocked components are what you normally would want to publish to a registry, since it allows users of the unlocked component to perform the final dependency solving across a DAG of components.
```
Until we have some CLI command documentation (in particular, for subcommands of `wkg` that do `lock` and `bundle`), maybe it's best to just leave it here, and we can always add more later.  Importantly though, I think this traces the path of `unlocked-dep` from WIT into WAT, which I think is all we need for this section.

> configure that a `use`'d interface is a particular import or a particular
> export.

## Unlocked Dependency Imports

When working with a registry, the keyword `unlocked-dep` is available to specify dependencies with package name and version requirements.  For example:

```wit
world w {

>   unlocked-dep foo:bar@{>=x.x.x <y.y.y};

Reviewer 2: Is it intended to support `foo:bar` here exactly? Or is a `/interface` required as well?

Reviewer: I was thinking that, when `/interface` is absent, the expectation could be that a registry is used to resolve `ns:package` to a component and the interface is the exports of that component (which have no name).

More hypothetically, if we get unnamed interfaces/worlds in WIT, `/interface` could also be absent without relying on a registry by using a nested package of the form:
``wit
package foo:bar {
  interface { ... }
}
world w {
  unlocked-dep foo:bar@{...}
}
```
WDYT?

Author: But perhaps this is a good opportunity to make clear that the optional `/interface` is possible as well, and maybe talk a bit about in which cases toolchains would create an `unlocked-dep` with and without an interface projection?  If we wanted to scope it in, folks could specify an interface when they add a dep and tools could only grab interfaces they need from the registry.  And also the `lock` or `bundle` command could shake out unused interfaces in cases as well.  May be more than we want for the initial discussion, but I _was_ thinking that folks may find it confusing to only see a component `foo:bar` when they're accustomed to depending on interfaces at the moment.

Reviewer 2: Could this spec out the `interface { ... }` change as well in that case? That's not currently implemented or sketched out here, so I think that should be included too if that's the intention. (also could this update the ebnf for `unlocked-dep` in worlds too?)

Reviewer: I'd be up for that; it would simplify things.

Author: Great I should be able to add some of these updates soon.

Reviewer: As an alternative to adding unnamed interfaces/worlds (which open up another set of design questions), we could instead add a bit of also-useful syntax that allows the WIT to capture precisely how the range query was resolved:
```wit
package gh:sqlite@1.1.1 {
  interface exports { ... }
}
world w {
  import dependency gh:sqlite@{>=1.0.0} = gh:sqlite/exports@1.1.1;
}
```
This `= <pkgname>` right-hand-side of the `import dependency` is necessary for advanced cases where the WIT needs to nest multiple versions of the same package such that the `<pkgnamequery>` alone would be ambiguous.  Importantly for our purposes here, though, none of the name/version info in the `= <pkgname>` shows up in the import so our world `w` above just contains `(import "unlocked-dep=<gh:sqlite@{>=1.0.0}>" (instance ...))` (no `/exports`, no `1.1.1`), and we didn't need anonymous interfaces to achieve that.

  unlocked-dep foo:bar@{>=1.2.0};
}
```

Now say that `foo:bar@1.2.0` implements the following `exports` interface:
```wit
package foo:bar@1.2.0;
interface exports {
  calc: func(x: u64) -> u64;
}
```

The next step is to expand `generated-world` with nested packages fetched from all the relevant registries, producing an all-in-one WIT file with no external references:  
```wit
package my:component;

package wasi:http@0.2.0 {
  ...
  world proxy { ... }
}

package foo:bar@1.2.0 {
  interface exports {
    calc: func(x: u64) -> u64;
  }
}

world generated-world {
  include wasi:http/proxy@0.2.0;
  unlocked-dep foo:bar/exports@{>=1.2.0};
}
```
Note that `exports` is an arbitrary name and can be anything because the WIT bindings generation will always strip off the final interface name, leaving only the package name.  In particular, the Component Model type for this world is:
```wat
(component
  (import "wasi:http/types@0.2.0" (instance ...))
  (import "wasi:http/outgoing-handler@0.2.0" (instance ...))
  (import "unlocked-dep=<foo:bar@{>=1.2.0}>" (instance
    (export "calc" (func (param "x" u64) (result u64)))
  ))
  (export "wasi:http/incoming-handler@0.2.0" (instance ...))
)
```

> A wasm component that contains `unlocked-dep` imports is referred to as an "unlocked component".  Unlocked components are what you normally would want to publish to a registry, since it allows users of the unlocked component to perform the final dependency solving across a DAG of components.

Reviewer 3: Related to my comment on this PR, but an "unlocked component" really doesn't seem self-explanatory to me. Language like, "coupled component" or "tightly coupled component" seem to more readily express the fact that the component depends on implementations rather than interfaces.
